Happy are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the LORD.
Happy are those who keep his decrees, who seek him with their whole heart,
who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways.
You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently.
O that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes!
Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments.
I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous ordinances.
I will observe your statutes; do not utterly forsake me.
How can young people keep their way pure? By guarding it according to your word.
With my whole heart I seek you; do not let me stray from your commandments.
I treasure your word in my heart, so that I may not sin against you.
Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes.
With my lips I declare all the ordinances of your mouth.
I delight in the way of your decrees as much as in all riches.
I will meditate on your precepts, and fix my eyes on your ways.
I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.
Deal bountifully with your servant, so that I may live and observe your word.
Open my eyes, so that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
I live as an alien in the land; do not hide your commandments from me.
My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times.
You rebuke the insolent, accursed ones, who wander from your commandments;
take away from me their scorn and contempt, for I have kept your decrees.
Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statutes.
Your decrees are my delight, they are my counselors.
My soul clings to the dust; revive me according to your word.
When I told of my ways, you answered me; teach me your statutes.
Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works.
My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word.
Put false ways far from me; and graciously teach me your law.
I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your ordinances before me.
I cling to your decrees, O LORD; let me not be put to shame.
I run the way of your commandments, for you enlarge my understanding.
Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes, and I will observe it to the end.
Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.
Lead me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it.
Turn my heart to your decrees, and not to selfish gain.
Turn my eyes from looking at vanities; give me life in your ways.
Confirm to your servant your promise, which is for those who fear you.
Turn away the disgrace that I dread, for your ordinances are good.
See, I have longed for your precepts; in your righteousness give me life.
Let your steadfast love come to me, O LORD, your salvation according to your promise.
Then I shall have an answer for those who taunt me, for I trust in your word.
Do not take the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your ordinances.
I will keep your law continually, forever and ever.
I shall walk at liberty, for I have sought your precepts.
I will also speak of your decrees before kings, and shall not be put to shame;
I find my delight in your commandments, because I love them.
I revere your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.
Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope.
This is my comfort in my distress, that your promise gives me life.
The arrogant utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law.
When I think of your ordinances from of old, I take comfort, O LORD.
Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, those who forsake your law.
Your statutes have been my songs wherever I make my home.
I remember your name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law.
This blessing has fallen to me, for I have kept your precepts.
The LORD is my portion; I promise to keep your words.
I implore your favor with all my heart; be gracious to me according to your promise.
When I think of your ways, I turn my feet to your decrees;
I hurry and do not delay to keep your commandments.
Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law.
At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous ordinances.
I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts.
The earth, O LORD, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes.
You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
Before I was humbled I went astray, but now I keep your word.
You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
The arrogant smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts.
Their hearts are fat and gross, but I delight in your law.
It is good for me that I was humbled, so that I might learn your statutes.
The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces.
Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments.
Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word.
I know, O LORD, that your judgments are right, and that in faithfulness you have humbled me.
Let your steadfast love become my comfort according to your promise to your servant.
Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.
Let the arrogant be put to shame, because they have subverted me with guile; as for me, I will meditate on your precepts.
Let those who fear you turn to me, so that they may know your decrees.
May my heart be blameless in your statutes, so that I may not be put to shame.
My soul languishes for your salvation; I hope in your word.
My eyes fail with watching for your promise; I ask, "When will you comfort me?"
For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes.
How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me?
The arrogant have dug pitfalls for me; they flout your law.
All your commandments are enduring; I am persecuted without cause; help me!
They have almost made an end of me on earth; but I have not forsaken your precepts.
In your steadfast love spare my life, so that I may keep the decrees of your mouth.
89 89 The LORD exists forever; your word is firmly fixed in heaven.
Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established the earth, and it stands fast.
By your appointment they stand today, for all things are your servants.
If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my misery.
I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life.
I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts.
The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your decrees.
I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad.
Oh, how I love your law! It is my meditation all day long.
Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is always with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your decrees are my meditation.
I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts.
I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word.
I do not turn away from your ordinances, for you have taught me.
How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to observe your righteous ordinances.
I am severely afflicted; give me life, O LORD, according to your word.
Accept my offerings of praise, O LORD, and teach me your ordinances.
I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts.
Your decrees are my heritage forever; they are the joy of my heart.
I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end.
  I hate the double-minded, but I love your law.
You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.
Go away from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope.
Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually.
You spurn all who go astray from your statutes; for their cunning is in vain.
All the wicked of the earth you count as dross; therefore I love your decrees.
My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments.
I have done what is just and right; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Guarantee your servant's well-being; do not let the godless oppress me.
My eyes fail from watching for your salvation, and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise.
Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes.
I am your servant; give me understanding, so that I may know your decrees.
It is time for the LORD to act, for your law has been broken.
Truly I love your commandments more than gold, more than fine gold.
Truly I direct my steps by all your precepts; I hate every false way.
Your decrees are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.
The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple.
With open mouth I pant, because I long for your commandments.
Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your custom toward those who love your name.
Keep my steps steady according to your promise, and never let iniquity have dominion over me.
Redeem me from human oppression, that I may keep your precepts.
Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes.
My eyes shed streams of tears because your law is not kept.
You are righteous, O LORD, and your judgments are right.
You have appointed your decrees in righteousness and in all faithfulness.
My zeal consumes me because my foes forget your words.
Your promise is well tried, and your servant loves it.
I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is the truth.
Trouble and anguish have come upon me, but your commandments are my delight.
Your decrees are righteous forever; give me understanding that I may live.
With my whole heart I cry; answer me, O LORD. I will keep your statutes.
I cry to you; save me, that I may observe your decrees.
I rise before dawn and cry for help; I put my hope in your words.
My eyes are awake before each watch of the night, that I may meditate on your promise.
In your steadfast love hear my voice; O LORD, in your justice preserve my life.
Those who persecute me with evil purpose draw near; they are far from your law.
Yet you are near, O LORD, and all your commandments are true.
Long ago I learned from your decrees that you have established them forever.
Look on my misery and rescue me, for I do not forget your law.
Plead my cause and redeem me; give me life according to your promise.
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes.
Great is your mercy, O LORD; give me life according to your justice.
Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, yet I do not swerve from your decrees.
I look at the faithless with disgust, because they do not keep your commands.
Consider how I love your precepts; preserve my life according to your steadfast love.
The sum of your word is truth; and every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever.
Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words.
I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil.
I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.
Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous ordinances.
Great peace have those who love your law; nothing can make them stumble.
I hope for your salvation, O LORD, and I fulfill your commandments.
My soul keeps your decrees; I love them exceedingly.
I keep your precepts and decrees, for all my ways are before you.
Let my cry come before you, O LORD; give me understanding according to your word.
Let my supplication come before you; deliver me according to your promise.
My lips will pour forth praise, because you teach me your statutes.
My tongue will sing of your promise, for all your commandments are right.
Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
I long for your salvation, O LORD, and your law is my delight.
Let me live that I may praise you, and let your ordinances help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek out your servant, for I do not forget your commandments.
