Now these are the nations that the LORD left to test all those in Israel who had no experience of any war in Canaan
(it was only that successive generations of Israelites might know war, to teach those who had no experience of it before)
the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal-hermon as far as Lebo-hamath.
They were for the testing of Israel, to know whether Israel would obey the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded their ancestors by Moses.
So the Israelites lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites;
and they took their daughters as wives for themselves, and their own daughters they gave to their sons; and they worshiped their gods.
The Israelites did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, forgetting the LORD their God, and worshiping the Baals and the Asherahs.
Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of King Cushan-rishathaim of Aram-naharaim; and the Israelites served Cushan-rishathaim eight years.
But when the Israelites cried out to the LORD, the LORD raised up a deliverer for the Israelites, who delivered them, Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
The spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel; he went out to war, and the LORD gave King Cushan-rishathaim of Aram into his hand; and his hand prevailed over Cushan-rishathaim.
So the land had rest forty years. Then Othniel son of Kenaz died.
The Israelites again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD strengthened King Eglon of Moab against Israel, because they had done what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
In alliance with the Ammonites and the Amalekites, he went and defeated Israel; and they took possession of the city of palms.
So the Israelites served King Eglon of Moab eighteen years.
But when the Israelites cried out to the LORD, the LORD raised up for them a deliverer, Ehud son of Gera, the Benjaminite, a left-handed man. The Israelites sent tribute by him to King Eglon of Moab.
Ehud made for himself a sword with two edges, a cubit in length; and he fastened it on his right thigh under his clothes.
Then he presented the tribute to King Eglon of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
When Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent the people who carried the tribute on their way.
But he himself turned back at the sculptured stones near Gilgal, and said, "I have a secret message for you, O king." So the king said, "Silence!" and all his attendants went out from his presence.
Ehud came to him, while he was sitting alone in his cool roof chamber, and said, "I have a message from God for you." So he rose from his seat.
Then Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into Eglon's belly;
the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not draw the sword out of his belly; and the dirt came out.
Then Ehud went out into the vestibule, and closed the doors of the roof chamber on him, and locked them.
After he had gone, the servants came. When they saw that the doors of the roof chamber were locked, they thought, "He must be relieving himself in the cool chamber."
So they waited until they were embarrassed. When he still did not open the doors of the roof chamber, they took the key and opened them. There was their lord lying dead on the floor.
Ehud escaped while they delayed, and passed beyond the sculptured stones, and escaped to Seirah.
When he arrived, he sounded the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim; and the Israelites went down with him from the hill country, having him at their head.
He said to them, "Follow after me; for the LORD has given your enemies the Moabites into your hand." So they went down after him, and seized the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and allowed no one to cross over.
At that time they killed about ten thousand of the Moabites, all strong, able-bodied men; no one escaped.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest eighty years.
After him came Shamgar son of Anath, who killed six hundred of the Philistines with an oxgoad. He too delivered Israel.
