The sons of Issachar
The sons of Tola
The son of Uzzi
And along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers ’ houses, were units of the army for war, 36,000, for they had many wives and sons.
Their kinsmen belonging to all the clans of Issachar were in all 87,000 mighty warriors, enrolled by genealogy.
The sons of Benjamin
The sons of Bela
The sons of Becher
And their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their fathers ’ houses, mighty warriors, was 20,200.
The son of Jediael
All these were the sons of Jediael according to the heads of their fathers’ houses, mighty warriors, 17,200, able to go to war.
And Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, Hushim the son of Aher.
The sons of Naphtali
The sons of Manasseh
And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. The name of his sister was Maacah. And the name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters.
And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
The son of Ulam
And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, Abiezer and Mahlah.
The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.
The sons of Ephraim
Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed, because they came down to raid their livestock.
And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
And Ephraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah, because disaster had befallen his house.
His daughter was Sheerah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-horon, and Uzzen-sheerah.
Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son,
Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
Nun his son, Joshua his son.
Their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, and Ayyah and its towns;
also in possession of the Manassites, Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.
The sons of Asher
The sons of Beriah
Heber fathered Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua.
The sons of Japhlet
The sons of Shemer his brother
The sons of Helem his brother
The sons of Zophah
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera.
The sons of Jether
The sons of Ulla
All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers ’ houses, approved, mighty warriors, chiefs of the princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies, for service in war, was 26,000 men.
