Adam, Seth, Enosh;
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech;
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
The sons of Japheth
The sons of Gomer
The sons of Javan
The sons of Ham
The sons of Cush
Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty man.
Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom the Philistines came ), and Caphtorim.
Canaan fathered Sidon his firstborn and Heth,
and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
The sons of Shem
Arpachshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
To Eber were born two sons
Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah;
Eber, Peleg, Reu;
Serug, Nahor, Terah;
Abram, that is, Abraham.
The sons of Abraham
These are their genealogies
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
The sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine
The sons of Midian
Abraham fathered Isaac. The sons of Isaac
The sons of Esau
The sons of Eliphaz
The sons of Reuel
The sons of Seir
The sons of Lotan
The sons of Shobal
The son of Anah
The sons of Ezer
These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the people of Israel
Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith.
Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates reigned in his place.
Shaul died, and Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pai; and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And Hadad died. The chiefs of Edom were
Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom.
